# SD_01 - Software Development Process

Company managed software is developed against a defined software development
lifecycle process.

## Description

- On an annual basis, service owners confirm company-managed code is developed
  against a defined software development lifecycle (SDLC).
- An attestation is performed to confirm if the service contains company
  managed code, and if so, it follows the company-agreed SDLC.
- The control is executed against all services, with company-managed source
  code, captured in our configuration management database (CMDB), to minimize
  delivery and maintenance risks.
- Evidence of control execution is stored in our CMDB as part of the service
  owner attestation process and results.

## Approach

The service owner attestation process, triggered through our CMDB, is performed
every six months. Two questions are relevant to this control.

- Question 1: Does the service contain company-managed source code or
  configuration? [YES/NO]
- Question 2: If so, does the software development follow the company’s
  software development lifecycle process? [YES/NO]

## Quality

1. Attestation results are reviewed on a quarterly basis by the engineering
   leadership team.
1. Minutes of this review will be captured as part of either monthly or
   quarterly engineering leadership team meetings.
1. A review of our SDLC will be performed on an annual basis by our principal
   engineers.
1. The minutes of this review and any changes will be captured and held against
   our engineering handbook.
1. Engineering people training will be performed annually through our mandatory
   learning capability.
1. Training coverage and results will be reviewed on a quarterly basis by the
   engineering leadership team. [FUTURE DX].

## Evidence

1. The catalogue of services is available through the company’s CMDB.
1. The approved SDLC process is available through TLT meeting minutes.
1. The service owner attestation results are available through the
   company’s CMDB.
1. SDLC process review minutes and changes are available through our
   engineering handbook.
1. Service attestation review minutes and actions are available through
   Eng LT meeting minutes.
