# SD_02 - Software Development Version Control

Company-managed source code is kept in an approved version control system.

## Description

- On an annual basis, service owners confirm company managed source code and
  configuration is kept in an approved version control system (VCS).
- An attestation is performed to confirm if the service contains company
  managed code and configuration, and if so, it is kept in an approved version
  control system (VCS).
- The control is executed against all services, with company-managed source
  code, captured in our configuration management database (CMDB), to minimize
  delivery and maintenance risks.
- Evidence of control execution is stored in our CMDB as part of the service
  owner attestation process and results.

## Approach

The service owner attestation process, triggered through our CMDB, is performed
every six months. Two questions are relevant to this control.

- Question 1: Does the service contain company-managed source code or
  configuration? [YES/NO]
- Question 2: Are the source code or configuration files held in an approved
  version control system? [YES/NO]

## Quality

1. Attestation results are reviewed on a quarterly basis by the engineering
   leadership team.
1. Minutes of this review will be captured as part of either monthly or
   quarterly engineering leadership team meetings.
1. Engineering people training will be performed annually through our mandatory
   learning capability.
1. Training coverage and results will be reviewed on a quarterly basis by the
   engineering leadership team. [FUTURE DX].

## Evidence

1. The catalogue of services is available through the company’s CMDB.
1. The approved VCS’ is available through the architecture design authority
   (ADA) meeting minutes.
1. The service owner attestation results are available through the company’s CMDB.
