# SD_03 – Software Development Code Review

Company-managed source code is reviewed, independency of the author, for
readability, quality, complexity and security.

## Description

- As-required, company-managed code is reviewed, independently of the author,
  for readability, quality, complexity and security.
- Engineering teams determine the review approach, frequency, and scope,
  ensuring segregation of duties between reviewers and authors.
- An attestation is performed by the service owner to confirm the service has a
  suitable source code review process captured and managed.
- The control is executed against all services, with company-managed source
  code, captured in our configuration management database (CMDB), to minimize
  delivery and maintenance risks.
- Evidence of control execution is stored in our configuration management
  database as part of the service owner attestation process and results.

## Approach

The service owner attestation process, triggered through our CMDB, is performed
every six months. Two questions are relevant to this control.

- Question 1: Does the service contain company-managed source code or
  configuration? [YES/NO]
- Question 2: If yes, are source code reviews performed using an agreed and
  documented source code review process? [YES/NO]

## Quality

1. Attestation results are reviewed on a quarterly basis by the engineering
   leadership team.
1. Minutes of this review will be captured as part of either monthly or
   quarterly engineering leadership team meetings.
1. Engineering people training will be performed annually through our
   mandatory learning capability.
1. Training coverage and results will be reviewed on a quarterly basis by
   the engineering leadership team. [FUTURE DX].

## Evidence

1. The catalogue of services is available through the company’s CMDB.
1. The service owner attestation results are available through the
   company’s CMDB.
1. Source code review process documentation and results available via the
   service owner.
1. Service attestation review minutes and actions are available through Eng
   LT meeting minutes.
