# SD_04 – Software Development Release Acceptance Evidence

1. The catalogue of services is available through the company's CMDB.
1. The service owner attestation results are available through the company's
   CMDB.
1. Change records, containing approvals and supporting information, are
   available through the company's CMDB.
1. Software development acceptance process documentation and results available
   via the service owner.
1. Service attestation review minutes and actions are available through Eng LT
   meeting minutes.
1. Company-managed source code following a defined acceptance process is in
   place to formally accept change to the software code before a production
   release.

## Description

- As required, changes to a service undergo a formal software development
  acceptance process before production release.
- Engineering teams determine the software development acceptance approach,
  frequency, and scope, ensuring segregation of duties between reviewers and
  authors.
- An attestation is performed by the service owner to confirm the service has a
  suitable software development acceptance process captured and managed.
- The control is executed against all services, with company-managed source
  code, captured in our configuration management database (CMDB), to minimize
  delivery and maintenance risks.
- Evidence of control execution is stored in our configuration management
  database as part of the change record.

## Approach

The service owner attestation process, triggered through our CMDB, is performed
every six months. Three questions are relevant to this control.

- Question 1: Does the service contain company-managed source code or
  configuration? [YES/NO]
- Question 2: If yes, is a software development acceptance performed using an
  agreed and documented process? [YES/NO]
- Question 3: If yes, do change records include evidence of the software
  development change acceptance approval? [YES/NO]

## Quality

1. Attestation results are reviewed on a quarterly basis by the engineering
   leadership team.
1. Minutes of this review will be captured as part of either monthly or
   quarterly engineering leadership team meetings.
1. Engineering people training will be performed annually through our mandatory
   learning capability.
1. Training coverage and results will be reviewed on a quarterly basis by the
   engineering leadership team. [FUTURE DX].

## Evidence

1. The catalogue of services is available through the company’s CMDB.
1. The service owner attestation results are available through the
   company’s CMDB.
1. Change records, containing approvals and supporting information, are
   available through the company’s CMDB.
1. Software development acceptance process documentation and results available
   via the service owner.
1. Service attestation review minutes and actions are available through Eng
   LT meeting minutes.
